# Using Gradle

Gradle is pain. Gradle is suffering. Ask Mr. Griswold, and he'll agree with my statements. Despite this, it's my duty to explain to you how to use it.

## _Pretending_ to use Gradle

Okay, okay, you don't need to know all the details, you just want to get my code built. This is a lot easier than actually understanding what's going on.

### `gradle` and `./gradlew`

If you have Gradle installed, like on the Pi I was doing my development on, this should be easy-- it's a command that you can invoke to do things. If not, Gradle ships two files: `gradlew` and `gradlew.bat` in the project root. These _kinda_ work, but sometimes on a clean install they don't, because reasons! I'll write all of the commands as `gradle ...`, but you can replace them with `./gradlew ...` and they should work the same.

### Building Something

With most build systems, you'd expect the `build` subcommand to... build your code, right? That's silly of you, running `gradle build` compiles it, then packages it in JARs and a bunch of other stuff. To recompile your code, you actually want the `compileJava` task, so you should invoke `gradle compileJava`.

The vision system is set up to have a run script, which is auto-generated by the `setupRunScript` task, so you can run `build/run.sh <args>`. This run script only needs to be regenerated if your dependencies change.

For the robot code, you'll have even less interfacing with Gradle-- the WPI extension in VS Code has a command called "Deploy Robot Code", which is bound to Shift-F5 by default. In case you're curious, that command runs the command `./gradlew deploy  -PteamNumber=4121 --offline  -Dorg.gradle.java.home="/home/matthew/wpilib/2025/jdk"` in the shell.
